---
layout: default
title: GEOG2200
nav_order: 4
parent: Classes
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---
# Introduction to Data Visualization for GEOG2200

## Objectives:

This hands-on session provides an overview of data visualization techniques and instructions on how to apply them in ArcGIS Online. Participants will learn about best practices and guidelines for designing effective StoryMaps. Learners will get a chance to go through the entire design process of creating a narrative with their data for a particular scenario using ESRI tools.  

In this session, participants will:  
- Gain an overview of data visualization/ storytelling  
- Discover resources for secondary data sets to support research   
- Explore the ArcGIS Online interface  
- Create a basic StoryMap using ESRI tools  

### MATERIALS:
- Ensure you have logged into your ArcGIS Online Account. The session instructor will email you instructions prior to the session. [Take me there!](https://univmb.maps.arcgis.com/){: .btn .btn-green }
- Download the data and extract the compressed files into your **Downloads** folder. [Download Data](https://github.com/meginwinnipeg/workshops/raw/main/content/classes/GEOG2200/data/geog2200_workshop.zip){: .btn .btn-green }
{: .prereq}  

## Assignment:

Now that you have completed the walk-through using Kings Park data, apply the following concepts to the **Kildonan Park** dataset found in the shared ArcGIS Online folder, then create a StoryMap using the four Kildonan Park maps created.  
### MAPS: 
1.	A map that categorizes the data by **botanical name**, format the **pop-ups** for clarity;    
2.	A map that symbolizes trees by **diameter of trunk** (either using colour or proportional symbology);  
3.	A **heat map** that depicts the concentration of trees in the park;   
4.	A map on a **theme of your choice** that incorporates another data layer you have downloaded from the [**City of Winnipeg’s open data portal**](https://data.winnipeg.ca/browse) or the Library's GIS Hub.  

### STORYMAP:
Your StoryMap should include:  
1. **Title**;  
2. **Descriptive text** for each map and piece of media;  
3. Your four **maps**;  
4. **Media** (Created by visiting the Park)  
   1.  One embedded video  
   2.  At least one embedded image  
5. **References** for the data, images and video if necessary. 
 
### SUBMITTING
Update **metadata** and ensure you have properly **shared** to submit your file to Dr. Walker for grading.
 
1. Update the previously highlighted sections as follows:  
    1. _Description_: Describe your project  
    2. _Terms of Use_: Let people know this is a student project for the GEOG 2200 course  
    3. _Tags_:  **GEOG2200_2023**  
    4. _Share_: Under group sharing ensure the **GEOG2200** group is selected  